Kansas man accused of fatally shooting Indian engineerA Kansas man is accused of shooting and killing an Indian immigrant engineer he thought was Middle Eastern and wounding two others after shouting "get out of my country" and opening fire.

Adam Purinton was arrested after fleeing Austin's Bar and Grill, a suburban Kansas City restaurant that was packed Wednesday night when he allegedly blasted off several rounds at 7:15 p.m.

Cops arrested the 51-year-old at an Applebee's hours later in Clinton, Mo., some 80 miles away after they were able to negotiate with him over the phone early Thursday morning.

Purinton was charged with premeditated murder and two counts of attempted murder, Johnson County, Kan., District Attorney Steve Howe said at an afternoon press conference.

Custodians fired from Kan. school for reporting harassment: suit

Srinu Kuchibhotla (left) was killed and Alok Madasani (right) was wounded in a shooting at a Kansas bar.

The slain victim was identified by authorities as Srinivas Kuchibhotla, an aviation engineer at technology company Garmin, originally Hyderabad, India.

Kuchibhotla's co-worker Alok Madasani, a 32-year-old whose LinkedIn page shows he also attended school in India before moving to the Kansas City area in the mid 2000s, was wounded in the shooting and remains at the hospital.

Garmin spokeswoman Carly Hysell told the Daily News that the company is not publicly identifying the employees, but that the second worker is no longer in critical condition.

Adam Purinton was arrested for shooting and killing an Indian immigrant in Kansas. (Henry County Sheriffs Office)

A GoFundMe page for Kuchibhotla's loved ones had raised more than $38,000 as of Thursday afternoon as those who knew the engineer mourned his passing.

Former Army soldier accused of supporting fake ISIS attack

Siva Sattanathan, a friend of both Kuchibhotla and Madasani from their days working together in Iowa, told the Daily News that pair, both Hindus from Hyderabad, were good friends.

"He was very polite. He could not start a fight at all," Sattanathan said, adding that the slain immigrant was known for his friendliness.

Ian Grillot's loved ones said he tried to stand up to the alleged shooter. (GoFundMe)

Another fundraising page for the third victim, 24-year-old Ian Grillot, said he "stood up for two people being mistreated by a man" but then "found himself in the wrong place trying to be a helping hand."

Witnesses told the Kansas City Star that Purinton been drinking hard, and continually exclaimed racial slurs. When a bar regular told him to stop, the man yelled "get out of my country" before he started shooting.

Dick Vitale rips Kansas fans leaving early before comeback win

Purinton allegedly told a bartender at the second bar, in Missouri, that he had killed two men who he called "Middle Eastern."

The gunman fled the bar after blasting off several rounds around 7:15 p.m. (The Kansas City Star)

Police in Clinton, Mo., said that an Applebee's bartender called them after a customer said he was involved in a shooting.

Prosecutors and police at Thursday's press conference did not elaborate on details of what happened inside Austin's.

An FBI representative said that investigators are looking into whether the shooting violated federal laws such as those involving hate crimes.

Purinton appeared in court on Thursday and waived extradition so he can be taken back to Kansas.