Get Ready to Rock with ROCK DOG!On February 24, Lionsgate Premiere will unleash ROCK DOG , a fun new animated adventure from Ash Brannon, co-director of Surf's Up and Toy Story 2. The tale of a wide-eyed Tibetan Mastiff that leaves home to fulfill his dream of becoming a musician after a radio falls from the sky and into his possession, ROCK DOG features the voice talents of Luke Wilson (Bodi), Eddie Izzard (Angus), J.K. Simmons (Khampa), Lewis Black (Linnux), Kenan Thompson (Riff), Mae Whitman (Darma), Jorge Garcia (Germur), with Matt Dillon (Trey) and Sam Elliott (Fleetwood Yak). To celebrate the release, Lionsgate has teamed up with The Rock Father™ to give readers a chance at scoring a ROCK DOG prize pack, including a $50 Visa Gift Card to see the film in theaters, plus a Beanie, Tambourine and Temporary Tattoo! Are YOU ready to ROCK?

Enter to win a ROCK DOG Prize Pack:

Use the Rafflecopter Widget below (it will guide you), starting with the first (mandatory) entry method - Leave a Disqus comment on this post that shares your answer to the following:

QUESTION: Who is your favorite band or musical artist of all-time?



After that, you can complete social actions for additional, completely optional entries. Please Note: By entering giveaways on The Rock Father, you agree to comply with my fairness policy.

Please Note that Twitter "Egg" Accounts are ineligible for entry.

(If you need information regarding Twitter Eggs, Google is your friend.)

The Fine Print:

Promotion open to U.S. residents only, ages 18+, void where prohibited. One (1) Winner will be chosen at random on, about, or after February 27, 2017, and will be notified via email to confirm. If no response within 24 hours, an alternate winner will be chosen. Prizing provided and shipped by Lionsgate Premiere. This is in no way sponsored, endorsed or administered by, or associated with Facebook.

1980s-style Disclaimer: Many will enter, few will win! The Rock Father is not responsible for any lost or misdirected packages. In the rare occasion that a prize does not arrive (which, sadly, has happened), you have no remedy other than moving on.

Bonus: Download ROCK DOG Free Printable Activity Sheets and Coloring Pages: