Ku-ring-gai Council recognised at planning awardsLucy Turnbull commended Ku-ring-gai Council for their Lindfield Community Hub and Activate Ku-ring-gai projects

KU-RING-GAI Council was recognised for two local initiatives at the inaugural Greater Sydney Planning Awards last night.

Council received two of the five commendations announced at the presentation ceremony, for their work on the Lindfield Village Hub, in the Great Integrated Planning Project category, and Activate Ku-ring-gai in the Great Plan category of the awards.

Ku-ring-gai Mayor Jennifer Anderson said the high commendations were “a well-deserved accolade for the Council’s long-term planning for its major centres”.

“It represents years of painstaking work and close involvement with our community to achieve good outcomes that will stand the test of time,” Cr Anderson said.

Lindfield Community Hub — artist's impression.

NSW Minister for Planning Anthony Roberts and the Greater Sydney Commission chief commissioner Lucy Turnbull presented the awards.

“Planning is a profession that doesn’t always get the recognition it deserves,” Mr Roberts said.

“By promoting best practice through these awards, we hope to see even higher standards and expectations in planning.

“We want to drive world class planning in this great city and foster innovation, creativity and excellence.”

Ms Turnbull praised the “high standard of entries and level of innovation they demonstrated”.

“The Greater Sydney Planning Awards celebrate innovative, bold city-making projects and we’re delighted at the large number of entries we received,” Ms Turnbull said.

“We were very impressed at the high quality of the entries and would like to congratulate all of the winners.

“Their projects represent the best in good planning practice that leads to better quality design and more liveable communities.”

Greater Sydney Commission Chair Lucy Turnbull

A Ku-ring-gai Council spokeswoman said “the Lindfield Community Hub project involves the redevelopment of a 1.3 hectare site located on the western side of the Lindfield Town Centre and will be a mixed use precinct with community buildings, boutique shops, cafes, restaurants, apartments a below-ground supermarket and underground short term and commuter parking.”

“Another high commendation was given to the Council by the Commission in the Great Plan category last night for the Activate Ku-ring-gai program of urban renewal for Ku-ring-gai’s retail centres,” the spokeswoman said.

The Turramurra Community Hub is apart of the Activate Ku-ring-gai project.

“Activate Ku-ring-gai aims to revitalise Ku-ring-gai’s town centres in a staged program of redevelopment. The Commission judges commended Council on its ‘innovative approach to engagement which serves as a model for other centres’.”