Karen Ristevski murder: Witness saw strange men matching description of husband and his brotherAs police close in on the killer of Melbourne woman Karen Ristevski, a new witness has come forward, claiming to have seen two men near where her body was found around the same time she went missing.

However it is his description of the pair that has stunned police.

No more than 200 metres from where the missing mum’s body was found, the new witness claimed he saw two strange men bogged in a truck and their appearances matched the description of Karen's husband Borce Ristevski and his brother Vasko, reports the Herald Sun.

It follows a string of leads from members of the public, coming forward with information.

In July, a photographer saw empty bottles of industrial strength fertiliser 40 metres away from where Karen's body was found.

A new witness has given police a description matching that of Borce Ristevski and his brother Vasko (pictured). Picture: Herald Sun

Karen Ristevski (middle), pictured with her husband and daughter. Picture: 7 News

Fertiliser found on Loch Rd Mt Macedon in July, 2016 near where Karen Ristevski's body was found.

While on Monday, witnesses Gary and Sandy Salt claim to have seen a man walking out of the scrub at Macedon Regional Park alone and carrying a shovel.

Mr Salt told Seven News he saw the man's face clearly and he would have no problem identifying him.

Mr Salt said he dropped friends at home near the Macedon Regional Park about midnight one night in November, five months after Ms Ristevski went missing.

When Seven News asked if the man was Karen's husband Borce Ristevski, Mr Salt declined to answer.

Police and SES scoured bushland in December 2016 in the Gisborne, Mount Macedon area. Photo: AAP

Homicide detectives told the Gisborne businessman not to speak publicly about what he saw, just a two-minute walk from her body.

The new witnesses claims come just days after police seizes a soil-ridden shovel from the Ristevski’s Avondale home.

Police at the Mount Macedon scene. Picture: 7 News

One matched dirt from behind their family home, the other is believed to have come from the Mount Macedon region where Karen's body was found.

Police are urging anyone with information in relation to the disappearance of Karen Ristevski is urged to contact Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000.