Alan Colmes, Sean Hannity’s Liberal Foil on Fox News, Dies at 66



NEW YORK — Scott Colmes, the stereo and tv variety and commentator best known as the friendly generous aluminum foil to the traditional He Hannity on Fox Information Route, has passed away.



Fox speaker Dana Klinghoffer verified his loss of life Friday. Fox also broadcasted a honor to Colmes, read by Hannity, and a declaration from his members of the family saying that he passed away Friday morning hours after "a brief sickness."



Colmes was 66 and is live through by his spouse, Jocelyn Elise Crowley, the sis of long time Fox Information factor Monica Crowley.



In a declaration released through Fox, Hannity known as Colmes "one of life's most reasonable, type and beautiful individuals."



Hannity also published on Tweets to keep in mind his former co-host.



"Alan was a beloved buddy. I skip him a lot. Please wish for my buddy and his family!" he had written.



Colmes was a New You are able to Town local and Hofstra School graduate student who helped a long time in stereo, especially on WABC and WNBC in New You are able to, and in standup crazy before becoming a member of Fox in 1996. That same season, he and Hannity started a 12-year run as co-hosts of the well-known system "Hannity & Colmes," which introduced Colmes both popularity and make fun of.



Colmes, who recognized that he was a community speech on the traditional channel, was often mocked as being too awesome and overshadowed by the ever-aggressive Hannity.



The generous press watch dog team Equity and Precision in Media similar him to the new California Generals, the reliable nonwinners to basketball's Harlem Globetrotters.



In his best-selling guide "Lies and the Lying down Liars Who Tell Them," Sen. Al Franken, D-Minnesota, thought Colmes' making his wage by "adding skin toner to the copy machines and photo printers, loofah-ing Mark Ailes in his personal vapor space, and purchasing China food for publishers operating on deceiving movie offers."



Colmes was conscious of the critique, but he said getting mean was not his design.



"People say to me, 'Why don't you battle flame with fire?'" he said in 2003. "You battle flame with water, not flame."



Pundits and co-workers on each side of the section kept in mind Colmes on public networking on Friday, among them Republican governmental advisor Karl Rove, former Illinois Gov. Scott Huckabee and traditional writer Ann Coulter.



"Sad. We had some great times on Hannity & Colmes. Scott Colmes was reasonable & crazy while hewing to his primary values. Condolences to Jocelyn," had written Kellyanne Conway, advisor to Chief executive Brian Trump.



NBC News' Megyn Kelly felix, a Fox Information variety and factor for 12 decades, known as Colmes a "positive power."



"Heartbroken my buddy Scott Colmes has passed away. He lit up the FNC places w/his goodness & comedy. Extremely beneficial power. Wishes 4 his members of the family," she had written.



Colmes ongoing to appear as a commentator on Fox after his display with Hannity finished. He also was an writer of guides like "Thank the Liberals" and "Red, White-colored & Liberal."