Sydney renters offered Harry Potter cupboard style room in share houseYou may be frustrated with high Sydney rents, but are they bad enough to force you to live in a cupboard?

A group of cheeky roommates have taken to Facebook to poke fun at the city's sky-rocketing rents with a tongue-in-cheek advertisement for a "room" for rent.

It may have an affordable price tag of just $20, but the space looks remarkably like a cupboard under a set of stairs.

Dubbing it the Harry Potter suite, in reference to the much-loved JK Rowling's series, the share house residents have called for only serious respondents to contact them.

The flatmates show off the "ample room" available under the staircase for a potential couple. Source: Facebook

In the books child wizard Harry lives in a cupboard under the stairs at his aunt and uncle’s home.

The would-be tenant would share the Sydney property with four students and the best news is they can bring a pet.

"Pets are allowed, but must stay in the room with you,” the advert says.

The humorous post suggest that the space may even be big enough for a duo.

“This quaint little room easily fits a couple, includes a foot rest for easy stretching,” the ad reads.

The room where your feet can touch the roof. Source: Facebook

The biggest drawback of the room may be the lack of sleep you will get due to a creaky staircase directly above you.

“Early starts Sundays as the staircase above does creak, and Giles has cricket at 7am (wicketkeeper).”

The advertisement that was posted to social media. Source: Facebook

A number of prospective tenants have responded to the advert.

“So sad but... are you genuinely wanting to rent it? I'll honestly stick a mattress in there,” one person wrote.

“Hey guys, very interested but just have to ask - will someone hurl abuse at me daily just like Uncle Vernon? Only keen if it's the full Harry Potter experience,” wrote another.

No word yet if the room has been rented out.

Newsbreak – February 24