Real Brands, Inc. (RLBD) Executes Letter of Intent to Acquire Omega Hemp Water Trademark and Brand Intellectual Property from Alkame Holdings, Inc. (ALKM)FORT LAUDERDALE, FL / ACCESSWIRE / February 22, 2017 / Real Brands, Inc. (OTC PINK: RLBD) announced today that it has executed a Letter of Intent to acquire the Omega Hemp Water trademarks and brand Intellectual Property from Alkame Holdings, Inc. (OTC PINK: ALKM) via a controlling interest in a newly created subsidiary.

The Letter of Intent contains broad terms of a transaction through which RLBD would own a super-majority interest in a new subsidiary, and Alkame would own the balance. This subsidiary will focus on developing proprietary formulation(s) and grow the operations and trademark value for Omega Hemp branded beverages.

"The proposed acquisition of the Omega Hemp trademarks creates a brand ownership opportunity for Real Brands with a partner that is a co-packer and unique ingredient supplier. This partnership with Alkame offers an accelerated path to market in this rapidly growing category, and provides an opportunity to create additional products," said Jerry Pearring, CEO, Real Brands, Inc.

"Alkame Holdings, Inc. is dedicated to developing and co-packing unique functional waters. We are pleased to partner with Real Brands to grow this brand, and look forward to creating a proprietary blend of ingredients to combine with our patented water process for Omega Hemp Water," said Robert Eakle, CEO of Alkame Holdings, Inc.

About Real Brands, Inc.

Real Brands, Inc. (OTC PINK: RLBD) is a publicly held Beverage company. The Company's strategy is to build beverage brands and is currently focusing on brand development of the HillBilly Beverage brand, a brand of lemonade and iced teas that competes in the alternative beverage category. Real Brands currently has a controlling equity interest in the exclusive worldwide license for non-alcoholic beverages (i.e. lemonade, iced tea, etc.), beer, and malt beverages with HillBillyTM Brand. For additional information, go to www.realbrandsusa.com.

Contact:

Jerry Pearring

jerry@realbrandsusa.com

954-270-5309

Safe Harbor Statement

Any statements in this press release that relate to Real Brands' expectations with regard to the future impact on its results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The results anticipated by any or all of these forward-looking statements might not occur. Real Brands undertakes no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes in Real Brands' plans or expectations.

Interviews and imagery available upon request.

SOURCE: Real Brands, Inc.