Theresa May plans three-year war to target 70 seats and wipe Jeremy Corbyn's Labour off the mapClick to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)

Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)

PM Theresa May plans a three-year “soft war” to kill Labour off. She will target more seats after the Tories’ Copeland by-election triumph.

She wants to launch a sustained offensive up to 70 of their most vulnerable seats to finish off Jeremy Corbyn’s wounded party.

Sky News 5 Theresa May hailed the victory in Copeland yesterday

Some ministers have urged her to call a snap poll in the wake of her historic by-election victory in Labour-held Copeland.

But the PM has told aides she wants to exploit the party leader’s weakness by “slowly turning the screw” from now to 2020.

Tory strategists believe she can snatch up to 70 seats from Labour at the next general election – banishing them from power for decades.

5 Jeremy Corbyn says he is NOT to blame for disastrous of Copeland loss

A senior source said: “Theresa scented blood after Thursday’s stunning success – now she wants to go in for the kill.

“She’s resisting temptation to call an election now and is going for a slow death.

“The idea is to prolong Corbyn’s misery by keeping him in place and slowly digging out the ground from under his feet.”

Campaign teams will be sent to work relentlessly in a range of marginal seats which Tories now feel are within their grasp.

Theresa May celebrate s Copeland win after yesterday's by-election

They include former northern strongholds of Halifax, Dewsbury, Wirral West and City of Chester.

Party workers will also flood Labour’s flimsy foothold in the south at Enfield North, Ilford North and Hampstead and Kilburn.

Some of them have not been held by the Tories since the early 1980s.

A party insider said: “It’s clear that traditional Labour voters are disillusioned with Labour’s lame duck leader.

“The plan is to devote time and energy in these areas to drive home the point that we are the real party of working people.”

Getty Images 5 Mr Corbyn insists he will lead the party into the 2020 election

The “slow death” strategy is being drawn up after Tories took Copeland, a safe Labour seat since 1935, reversing Labour’s 2,564 majority at the last election.

It comes as a poll revealed nearly a third of voters would be more likely to back Labour if Mr Corbyn was replaced.

A whopping 34 per cent of Labour supporters admit they would be more likely to stick with the party if he went, according to the ComRes survey.

Six in ten Lib Dem voters and a quarter of Ukip supporters also say they would consider backing Labour with a different boss – but Mr Corbyn insists he will lead the party into the 2020 election.

Jeremy Corbyn says he is NOT to blame for disastrous of Copeland loss

Yesterday deputy leader Tom Watson urged him to take a "long hard look” at himself in the wake of Thursday’s historic defeat.

He said Labour should be looking to gain 100 seats at the next election rather than struggling to retain ones they hold.

But he stopped short of calling for Mr Corbyn’s to stand down, saying “this is not the time for a leadership election”.

The veiled criticism of the party’s direction came as Mr Watson addressed delegates at a Scottish Labour conference.

Related stories BREXSHIP Michael Gove and Co help us serve early notice to Brussels as we sail Article 50 to the EU and forget Lords CASHING UP Will the Netherlands scrap the Euro? Dutch MPs vote to look into withdrawing from the single currency wait for a date EU wants to push back Brexit cut-off date 'to let migrants stay' - opening floodgates to thousands more Digi skills woe Quarter of Britain’s workforce faces being dumped over lack of digital skills, survey reveals UK’s box office hit Films made in Britain make more than a quarter of world’s entire box office takings BUCK UP! Union boss puts Jeremy Corbyn on a final warning after 'disastrous' Copeland by-election result THATCHER MINISTER DIES Margaret Thatcher's former Home Secretary Lord Waddington dies at the age of 87 HISTORY MAY-KER Theresa May hails 'astounding victory' as Tories take Copeland off Labour in historic by-election win SEAT OF POWER Find out about the House of Lords: What is a hereditary peer, how are members appointed and will it be abolished? UKIPPERED Paul Nuttall's Ukip office vandalised after his disastrous campaign failed in Stoke last night THE DUST BYN OF HISTORY Jeremy Corbyn denies he's to blame for Labour's historic by-election defeat in Copeland CHEEKY PAY RISE MPs' pay set to rise AGAIN from April - this time to £76,011 in the second hike since the General Election

Mr Watson said: “I want to be clear about this week’s by-elections. I’m not going to sugar coat the results. You deserve better than that.

“I’m glad we won in Stoke. Gareth Snell will be a great MP, and sending Paul Nuttall back home with his tail between his legs is exactly what he deserved.

“But I’m hugely disappointed that Gillian Troughton won’t be joining him in Parliament as the MP for Copeland.

“That means that all of us with leadership roles in the Labour party need to have a long, hard look at ourselves and what’s not working.

“Seven years into a Tory government, we shouldn’t be facing questions about whether we can retain the seats we already hold.

“Our job at the next election is to gain over 100 seats. Keeping what we have is supposed to be the easy bit.”

PA:Press Association 5 Deputy leader Tom Watson urged Mr Corbyn to take a 'long hard look' at himself

Mr Watson – who attempted to negotiate Mr Corbyn’s departure during a summer coup last year – fell short of calling for the Labour leader to go.

“I’ve said it a lot recently. This is not the time for a leadership election. That issue was settled last year,” he said.

“But we have to do better. We cannot sustain this level of distance from the electorate, from our natural supporters.”

David Miliband said the shift to the Left under Corbyn was “a mistake” that won’t solve Britain’s problems.

The former Foreign Secretary – pipped in the 2010 Labour leadership battle by his brother Ed – said he would have joined 52 Labour MPs who rebelled against his backing for the Brexit Bill.

He added: “This isn’t just an electability question. It’s a question of substance.

“I think one can achieve more radical and substantive change through a different set of positions.”

To have your say on last week's by-elections...

Call Jonny Gould from 4pm on 0344 499 1000

Listen on DAB, via the talkRADIO app or online at talkradio.co.uk