Americans Are Split on Whether They Want President Trump Impeached — And More Revealing PollsWhat Does President Trump’s Rollback of Transgender Student Protections Mean for the States?

No matter where Americans fall on the political spectrum, they are likely to have some strong opinions about President Donald Trump.

Three weeks into Trump’s run as president, a poll was published by Public Policy Polling that illustrates the divide in the country: 46 percent of voters are in favor of impeaching Trump, and 46 percent are opposed.

Trump’s overall approval rating varies by the source of the poll. A new national poll from Quinnipiac University has his approval rating at 38 percent, down from 42 percent just after his inauguration.

His post-inauguration approval rating is a record low compared to his recent predecessors: After his inauguration, Barack Obama’s approval rating was at 76 percent, and George W. Bush’s was 57 percent, according to CNN. Ronald Reagan was the closest to Trump, at 51 percent.

The lowest current numbers have Trump at 35 approval (Monmouth) and the highest at 52 percent (Rasmussen Reports).

Looking at the statistics by race and gender, Trump’s highest approval rating comes from white men. According to a NBC/SurveyMonkey poll, 58 percent of white men approve of Trump, while just 14 percent of black women approve of him.

On feelings about Trump

Another McClatchy-Marist poll says that 58 percent of Americans are embarrassed by the Trump administration, while 33 percent say his activity in office makes them proud.

Naturally, there’s a sharp contrast in Trump’s approval ratings between Democrats and Republicans. Though 85 percent of Republicans have a positive opinion of Trump, just 11 percent of Democrats do. This is a change from previous administrations, where the opposing party has had a higher approval rate of a president in the weeks after an inauguration. In the weeks after Obama’s inauguration, his approval rating was as high as 41 percent, according to Gallup.

Thus far, 57 percent of people surveyed think Trump is attempting to do too much too quickly. But to that point, 75 percent do believe that Trump is staying true to the promises he made on the campaign trail.

On policy

As for Trump’s more controversial actions as president, 6 in 10 oppose the building of Trump’s much-talked about wall along the Mexican border, with 37 percent in support, according to a Quinnipiac poll.

People are split a bit more evenly on healthcare, the same poll reports: 54 percent oppose repealing Obamacare, or the Affordable Care Act, and 43 support its repeal. One in three voters are either “very” or “somewhat” concerned about losing their healthcare if Congressional Republicans (and Trump) follow through on their vow to overturn Obamacare.

About three-quarters of those surveyed do not want to lower taxes for the wealthy.

In nearly every poll, a majority of respondents say the country is not heading in the right direction. In a Monmouth poll, just 27 percent of people support the way the country is headed — and 67 percent don’t approve of the direction the country is heading. Rasmussen Reports, a conservative-leaning poll group, according to Time, currently has 46 percent approval and 48 percent disapproval.

On Trump’s controversial travel ban, which has since been blocked by a federal judge and later, an appellate court, 48 percent do consider it to be a “Muslim ban,” and 65 percent of people oppose it.

45 percent of respondents support Trump’s executive orders on immigration. However, among that 45 percent, 51 percent of them think the fictional Bowling Green Massacre is evidence for a need in Trump’s new immigration policy.

72 percent of people do not approve of Trump’s favorable comments about Russian President Vladimir Putin.

It’s a near even split on how people view Trump is dealing with the economy: 45 percent approve, while 43 percent disapprove.

RELATED VIDEO: Watch: Natasha Stoynoff Breaks Silence, Accuses Donald Trump of Sexual Attack

On other topics and events

Trump made headlines for his comments about Frederick Douglass a few weeks ago, and according to a Public Policy Polling poll, only 47 percent of Trump voters know who Douglass is. According to the same poll, 45 percent of Trump voters have a positive opinion of Black History Month — and 46 percent think there should be a White History Month. 28 percent of voters overall are in favor of a White History Month.