Marie's January to February Flashback NewsletterHi, readers! I hope your Valentine’s Day turned out perfectly! Time has just flown by this month, hasn’t it?



I hope this newsletter provides updates about events you may have missed since the last one, as well as some exciting events coming up!



Updates

Initially, I’d like to mention a couple of reviews I missed in the last pass. On December 6th, a reviewer was kind enough to leave

a five star review on Amazon for Blue Vision

. So, thank you, David, for your awesome take on my sci-fi romance! At the end of December, Blue Vision also received

a great four star review from Pamela









On January 23rd, Stef Smulders came to the Writing in the Modern Age blog to talk about his book, Living in Italy: The Real Deal. , whose lovely words humbled me. Thank you for reading the book! :)On January 23, Stef Smulders came to the Writing in the Modern Age blog to talk about his book, Living in Italy: The Real Deal.

In the interview

, we learned of his fascinating journey that brought him to write about his travels and home in Italy. On the 24th,

Alistair Cross visited the MLB blog to discuss his dark fantasy novel

, The Angel Alejandro. What a compelling excerpt! And two days later,

Rhonda Cratty came to same blog

to talk about her family life novel, Our Family Quilt. This looks rather inspiring! On January 27th, author L. Anne Carrington visited Writing in the Modern Age to talk about her sports fiction/romance book, On Ice.

This detailed interview

portrays L. Anne’s author journey, her writing process and what’s next for her. Four days later,

D. L. Owens came to the I Love Romance Blog









On February 2nd, to offer a sample of her poetry. I love her romantic poems. Her illustrations are interesting as well.On February 2

Tom Starita came to the MLB blog

to discuss his humorous fiction novel. Sounds interesting! The next day brought

a guest post by Branka Čubrilo

, offering tips about writer’s block, on Writing in the Modern Age. On February 6th,

D.L. Owens came to the same blog

to offer more of her poetry! On the 7th, my upcoming historical romance/family saga novel, Upon Your Love, received

a nice book promo on author Lizzy Stevens’ blog

. Two days later, I had a guest post, titled “A Labor of Love”, on Natasha Murray’s blog. The article detailed my journey from writer to author. Check it out

here

! Also on February 9th, Upon Your Love, or more affectionately termed

UYL, which is book three of the Heiresses in Love Series, had a promo on Janice Spina’s blog

. The following day brought

a great book feature for Rhonda Cratty’s family-oriented, crafting non-fiction novel, Our Family Quilt









On February 11th, I was interviewed by Fiona McVie on her blog. , on Writing in the Modern Age.On February 11, I was interviewed by Fiona McVie on her blog.

Take a look here

to learn about me as a writer, as well as how UYL came into being. The following day brought

a pre-release book promo for UYL on Elodie Parkes’ blog

. On February 13th,

ILRB

and

the MLB blog

both hosted a new release feature about Cupid’s Arrow, a Valentine’s anthology released through Solstice Publishing the previous day. This looks like a nice set of romantic tales! Also check out a mention of Debbie De Louise’s romantic comedy, When Jack Trumps Ace. The same day brought

a feature for Sable Hunter’s new release, Too Sexy for Love

, on the I Love Romance Blog. Such a great excerpt! I can’t wait to read more of this contemporary romance! February 13th also provided a short promo about Upon Your Love on Nina Soden’s blog. Check it out

here









Three days later, UYL had a book feature on Bernard Foong’s blog. Check out an exclusive excerpt from the book , and learn a little background on one of the main characters.Three days later, UYL had a book feature on Bernard Foong’s blog. Check out an exclusive excerpt from the book

here

! On February 17th, Blue Vision got

a decent official review on the Knockin’ Books blog

. The following day brought

a book feature for UYL on Meglena Ivanova’s blog

. On February 20th, The Missing Piece, my new adult romance story, was officially released on its own! Woo hoo! :) Check out the details in

this post

. On the 21st,

a blog tour was featured on ILRB









On February 22nd, Rhonda Cratty’s family life novel, Our Family Quilt, went on a Kindle Countdown deal on Amazon, and . Sable Hunter presented readers with six books by various authors in the Hell Yeah! Kindle World Tour. These contemporary western romance novels look like great reads!On February 22, Rhonda Cratty’s family life novel, Our Family Quilt, went on a Kindle Countdown deal on Amazon, and

the book was featured on the MLB blog

. I believe the sale is still going on right now, at least for a few short hours, so don’t miss out! Also on the 22nd, I had a guest post on Nina Soden’s blog. The article was titled

“The Process: A Writer’s Perspective”

, and it provides a little insight into the way the writing process works. The same day brought

an author interview of mine on Juneta Key’s blog

. In the interview, she asked me questions about UYL – offering more details from the book, my favorite part of writing the story, and some of the historical research that was done – as well as a few other general inquiries about being an author.



On February 24th, there was a UYL feature on the Smile Somebody Loves You blog. Get a deeper look at the book

here





, and you’ll even find the book trailer in this spotlight.