Euless Trinity transgender wrestler Mack Beggs wins state championship, is met with both cheers and boosEuless Trinity's Mack Beggs and coach Travis Clark make their way to the mat before wrestling Grand Prairie's Kailyn Clay in the 6A girls 110 weight class during the UIL Wrestling State Tournament at Berry Center in Cypress on Saturday, February 25, 2017. Beggs defeated Clay to advance to the championship match. (Vernon Bryant/The Dallas Morning News)

Euless Trinity coach Travis Clark tends Trinity's Mack Beggs bloody nose during a match against Grand Prairie's Kailyn Clay in the 6A girls 110 weight class during the UIL Wrestling State Tournament at Berry Center in Cypress on Saturday, February 25, 2017. Beggs defeated Clay to advance to the championship match. (Vernon Bryant/The Dallas Morning News)

Euless Trinity's Mack Beggs pins Grand Prairie's Kailyn Clay in the 6A girls 110 weight class during the UIL Wrestling State Tournament at Berry Center in Cypress on Saturday, February 25, 2017. Beggs defeated Clay to advance to the championship match. (Vernon Bryant/The Dallas Morning News)

Euless Trinity's Mack Beggs defeats Grand Prairie's Kailyn Clay to advance to the championship match in the 6A girls 110 weight class at the UIL Wrestling State Tournament at Berry Center in Cypress on Saturday, February 25, 2017. (Vernon Bryant/The Dallas Morning News)

Euless Trinity's Mack Beggs is announced as the winner of the state championship title in the girls Class 6A girls 110 weight class during the UIL Wrestling State Tournament at Berry Center in Cypress on Saturday, February 25, 2017. Beggs, a 17-year-old transgender wrestler from Euless Trinity making a transition from female to male, defeated Katy Morton Ranch's Chelsea Sanchez. (Vernon Bryant/The Dallas Morning News)

When Beggs' name was announced as a finalist, a large cheer rose up. It was followed by a small amount of boos. Beggs' win was met by an extended cheer mixed with some boos.

Before the championship round the PA announcer told the crowd not to take part in action that would cause any wrestler to "doubt their accomplishments this weekend." Beggs took part in the parade of all the state finalists, with his hood up and headphones on most of the time.

Beggs, a 17-year-old transgender wrestler from Euless Trinity transitioning from female to male, defeated Katy Morton Ranch's Chelsea Sanchez by major decision, 12-2, to capture the Class 6A 110-pound girls state championship match Saturday evening.

CYPRESS -- Euless Trinity's Mack Beggs is a state champion in a division he doesn't want to be in.

Editor's note: This story has been updated since it was originally published.

Euless Trinity's Mack Beggs reacts to winning the state championship title in the girls Class 6A girls 110 weight class during the UIL Wrestling State Tournament at Berry Center in Cypress on Saturday, February 25, 2017. Beggs, a 17-year-old transgender wrestler from Euless Trinity making a transition from female to male, defeated Katy Morton Ranch's Chelsea Sanchez. (Vernon Bryant/The Dallas Morning News)

Beggs' family, wearing red shirts that read "Mack Attack" on the front and "2017 state" plus the person's relationship to Mack in the back, yelled support during a blood timeout.

Beggs is transitioning from female to male and wants to wrestle boys according to his grandmother, but UIL rules won't let him.

Sanchez declined comment. Katy Morton Ranch coach Mark Balser said he was proud of Sanchez in the match but declined to comment further.

After the match Beggs and Sanchez joked before the awards ceremony. During the ceremony, Beggs counted down and all the place winners dabbed in unison.

When Beggs' name was announced as champion, only cheers could be heard among the crowd.

Beggs has been the subject of controversy and intense media attention all weekend. Coaches, fans, and wrestling parents debated whether Beggs should be allowed to compete after taking testosterone treatments and whether it was fair to the other girls in the competition. Beggs is allowed to compete because he has "a valid medical use" to take the testosterone, which is normally a banned steroid.

Arlington Sam Houston's Destiny Dominguez, the state champion at 102 pounds, said she's wrestled Beggs earlier this year and has no problem with Beggs competing.

"I really think that it's unfair that everybody is so against Mack for this," Dominguez said. "It's nothing strength-wise as a wrestler. It's not how strong you are. It's your mentality, how you wrestle. With Mack, I think it's an inspiration for everybody, despite however many people are against you to be out here and for him to win is such a great thing."

Dominguez, a senior, said she's wrestled Beggs almost every year and didn't notice a difference in Beggs from the previous years to this year.

"Mack has always been a tough wrestler," Dominguez said.

Beggs also defeated Grand Prairie's Kailyn Clay in the state semifinals Saturday morning, winning via fall 2:52 into the match.