CITIZEN KANE An idyllic snowy landscape with a little cabin pans back abruptly to be revealed as a snow globe in a man's hand. An extreme closeup of his mouth. He whispers it: Rosebud. He drops the snow globe, and dies. At the movie theatre, before the flick starts up, a News of the Worldsegment begins, detailing the life and times of Mr. Charles Foster Kane, uber bajillonaire extraordinaire, who just died after years of self-imposed exile in his unfinished palatial estate, absurdly named Xanadu. We learn he controlled newspapers around the US, was married twice, and was both hated and loved by enough people that it was likely he would become President one day, but his campaign was derailed when he was caught cheating on the first wife with whom would be the second.
THE GODFATHER In 1945, the Corleone family gathers together for the wedding of Corleone daughter Connie to Carlo Rizzi. Even during the reception, Don Vito Corleone hears requests from various hangers-on who come to bow and scrape and kiss the ring. One such requestee is the famous singer Johnny Sinatra Fontane, who wants to be cast in the big movie studio's latest blockbuster. Don Corleone grants this request by promising to make the studio head Jack Woltz an offer he can't refuse, which is an example of hilarious mob humor through understatement. Other family members include hothead eldest son Sonny Corleone, pathetic fiveheaded wimpy middle son Fredo Corleone, and quiet, youngest son Michael Corleone, the white sheep of the Corleone family who wants nothing to do with the business. He has a girlfriend named Kay who has a line or two. Don Vito sends his consigliere Tom Hagen to Hollywood to talk to Jack Woltz and ask him for a favor and to cast Fontane in his movie.
CASABLANCA The setting; the city of Casablanca, in Morocco. It's 1941. Rick Blaine owns and runs Rick's Cafe Americain, a nightclub where everybody knows your name and German Nazi soldiers mingle with European refugees of all stripes, as well as the occasional American like Rick. Creepy Russian guy Ugarte is a regular at the club, and he corners Rick one day and asks him to hold to some papers for him. They're two letters of transit which allow the holders to jump to the head of the line at most Disney rides as well as unfettered access throughout all of occupied Europe, which in turn can allow refugees to escape to Switzerland or Norway or one of those neutral commie places. Rick takes the papers and suddenly Ugarte is arrested by some French officials, including Captain Louis Renault, a self-confessed corrupt official. Renault and Rick exchange witty banter for a bit, and then Renault lets it drop that the famous Czech resistance leader Victor Lazlo has recently escaped from a Nazi concentration camp and is rumored to be somewhere in Morocco looking for safe passage to America.
RAGING BULL What if Rocky was a giant fucking asshole?Jake LaMotta is a boxer in 1941. He's a gritty black and writer scrapper with little to live for and less to lose. He's got a wife who he screams at and a little brother who he bullies, by badgering him to hit him as hard as he can and then laughing at his efforts. His brother Joey is also his manager, and Joey tries to schmooze the local made men in order to get Jake a shot at the middleweight championship title. Jake sees fifteen-year old Vickie at the neighborhood public pool, and is smitten. He wants to know if Joey's seen her before. Yeah, she's a neighborhood girl.
SINGIN' IN THE RAIN At what point does a parody of a thing just become the thing?Plot summary: It's the swinging 1920's. Power showbiz couple Don Lockwood and Lina Lamont are attending the premiere of their latest silent film. A reporter lady asks them how it feels to be so rich and famous and pretty and in love. Don stares directly at the camera with a cheesy grin and proceeds to tell the world his life story. We think we're headed for a flashback that will encompass the whole movie, but instead it's a super-quick recap of his whole life. He started out doing and doing vaudeville and all that with his buddy Cosmo Brown, and then he became a stuntman, and then he met Lina and they fell in love and became big movie stars. Heh.
GONE WITH THE WIND We are in Tara, Georgia, in 1861, on a cotton plantation just before the beginning of the Civil War. I would literally feel more at home on Mars. On the O'Hara farm, Miss Scarlett sips her mint julep and wards off the advances of indistinguishable gentlemen callers while hoping to catch the eye of the dashing Mr. Ashley Wilkes. One of the gentleman callers informs Scarlett that Ashley Wilkes is to be married to his cousin (natch), a Miss Melanie Hamilton. (This was my grandmother's Very Favorite Movie, so much so that she named my mother after Melanie Hamilton. As luck would have it, they have nearly the exact same personalities, and even kind of look alike). Fiddle dee dee! cries Scarlett, despite the fact that she presumably wants to be taken seriously as a human being.
LAWRENCE OF ARABIA Throughout the centuries, white men have often taken the time to show minorities how to improve their lives, and it's about time Hollywood acknowledged this, dammit.A man is riding his motorcycle through the winding English streets. Motorcycles are dangerous and scary, is what I say. The man crashes and dies. See? Told ya. The man was T.E.
SCHINDLER'S LIST In Poland, in the beginning of it all, you wore that Swastika proudly on your arm. You went to all the great parties, saw all the best cabarets, eat the best meals, bedded down with the best women. When you heard the Jews were relocated to Krakow, you traveled there, met with them, borrowed money from them to start your business selling supplies to the war effort. It was illegal to do business with Jews of course, but you greased all the right palms and set up a factory right in town, employing Jews for a pittance. Your right hand man was Itzhak Stern. He taught you how to successfully run a business, and you offered him your sincere thanks and a glass or wine as you rolled around and around in your riches. It became known that your company was a haven for the sick or the elderly Jews; ones who would otherwise be sent away to concentration camps or killed.
VERTIGO I don't think of myself as a negative guy, not really, though that label has been put on me from time to time. I was really hoping all of the Top Ten movies would be at least four stars, if not five. Really. I swear. Sigh.We start out with some nifty camera work as we see Detective Scottie Ferguson and some cop on a rooftop chasing a bad guy. Scottie almost falls off the roof and is hanging on the railing.
THE WIZARD OF OZ  Every year when I was a kid, CBS would set aside a two hour block of their usual early eighties high quality programming to show The Wizard of Oz. It happened in March. On a Saturday. Starting at 7 o'clock. So every March, the countdown would begin. First, I would draw a big green palace on my mom's calendar in the blank square that represented the date Oz would come back to me. And then when there were only ten days left I would start to look for the number ten everywhere; on street signs, price tags, etc.
City Lights So, here we are. One last go-around with The Little Tramp. Plot summary: Some high falutin' muckety-mucks are having a ribbon cutting ceremony in honor of a new statue in the middle of town square or whatever. There's a blanket over the statute. The mayor or whoever has his assistant rip off the blanket--revealing a sleeping Little Tramp, curled up on the statue's lap. They yell at him to get down and he does, but it takes like half and hour and he falls a lot and is flustered and I think I've seen this movie before. No, wait.
The Searchers We sweep across the gorgeous Texas landscape. It's 1868, and The Duke returns home three years late, after fighting in the Civil War. He arrives at the door of his brother and his brother's wife and family. They're thrilled and excitedly greet him and ask him to stay and eat dinner with them. The Duke accepts, speaking in that delightful mildly retarded, drunken stroke-victim way of his. The family dotes on his every whim while he shambles around and slurs some more and is irascible. He also says that'll be the day! at one point, all indignantly.
Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope This annoying kid named Eric Ostrander was my next-door neighbor in the early 80's. One day, I was playing with my GI Joes in the backyard and he leaned up against the wood fence that separated our homes and peaked through a little hole and awkwardly squawked, Hi, my name is Eric Ostrander! I'm your new neighbor! My mom said you could come over and play. Do you want to come over and play? I could only see his weird little eye through the hole in the fence. I found both his presumption and presentation appalling. I told him I had to ask my mom. I went inside, stood by the door and counted to ten, then came back out and said, Sorry, my mom said no. This went on daily for what seemed like months but was probably only a week or so, and then suddenly one day, Eric Ostrander let it be known that he had almost every Star Wars action figure known to man, Suddenly, my mom became quite amenable to my visiting the Ostrander home.
Psycho I'm one of those who saw the Van Sant version without ever having seen the original. At this point, I can't imagine you're surprised.Marian Crane and her beau, Sam, are having an afternooner at local hotel. Why hello, 1960! This Sam is no Viggo Mortensen, but I wouldn't kick him out of bed, either. Marian would, though. It's time for her to go back to work, so she starts dressing. Sam floats out the idea of getting married one day soon, but Hitchcock is laying the groundwork early on why Marian has to die, so Marian demurs on the marriage question, claiming they don't have the money.
#15. 2001: A Space Odyssey  I think it's time we take a look into the future, Andy. The future, Conan? Yes. All the way to the year 2000. And 1. Ten thousand years ago, our great-great-great-great 100 grandparents rutted around in the dirt, got eaten by bigger beasts, fought over watering holes, only had basic cable. Then one day, a group of monkey-men saw a giant black monolith in the ground. They shrieked and hollered and waved their arms about in an ostentatious fashion.
Sunset Blvd Joe Gillis is a washed-up screenwriter living in Hollywood. And he's dead. He's floating face down in a pool, with two gunshots in the back and one in the gut. But through the magic of Hollywood, he's able to narrate to the masses, just exactly how he got there. It all started when some well-dressed repo men arrived at his dingy Hollywood apartment to repossess his car. He'd been behind on the payments, see. But he told the men that he didn't have the car because he'd loaned it to a friend upstate.
The Graduate Benjamin's on a plane. He arrives at the airport, greets his parents. They drive him home. He's numb, used up, uncertain, doesn't know what's coming next in life at all. He just graduated college. His old parents invite all their old friends to come to his graduation party. They crowd him and push their faces in his face and smile and blabber and say nothing, loudly, in his ear, nonstop, all teeth and hair and meaningless platitudes.
The General The Little Tramp is a train conductor this time, in the Deep South. He rides into the station in Murrieta, Georgia, and--wait a minute. That's not the Little Tramp. That's some other dude. Hey there, other dude! His name is Johnnie and There were two loves of his life... his train...and---Cut to the picture your aunt has of your unsmiling great-grandmother in that weird pose. The love of Johnnie's life is Annabelle Lee. He goes to visit her one day, and discovers her father and brother are talking.
On the Waterfront  Plot summary(with spoilers): Tough guy Terry Malloy works down at the docks and is very manly and blue collar-y. He approaches an apartment building, and yells up to his friend Joey. Terry is too macho for sissy telephones. Joey comes to the window and Terry yells that he found one of Joey's racing pigeons, which he then reveals he has palmed in his hands. Joey says he'll meet Terry on the roof, where he keeps the pigeons. As soon as Joey disappears back into his apartment, Terry lets the pigeon go. The music is all intense and wonky, so we know shit's about to go down.
It's a Wonderful Life  Twas the night before Christmas and all through Bedford Falls, George Bailey was stirring, he was climbing the walls.He was raving and ranting, getting sloshed in the bar and swerving and crying and crashing his car.He came to a bridge and in his miserable state thought enough was enough there was too much on his plate.Is suicide truly painless? He'll soon find out. For the end was surely near, of that there's no doubt.Sir spoke to the angels, told them of George's plight Now look here, good Clarence, you must set things right.You must save George Bailey and make him see good things.
Chinatown Jake Gittes. Private Eye. Los Angeles. 1937. Jake has some pictures to show his client, Curly, who hired Jake because he suspects his wife is having an affair. He's right. Curly leaves the office all broken up and a new client enters, a Mrs. Evelyn Mulwray.
Some Like It Hot It's a period piece. And not just cuz they're dressed like ladies. HEY-O! It's 1929 and some cops and robbers are having a high speed Untouchable s-type shoot out over some bootleg liquor. Then we go inside a nightclub, where saxophonist Joe and bassist Jerry are playing in a band. They exposit all over each other for a bit while exchanging witty bon mots. The upshot is, they're poor, but they'll be getting paid tomorrow. Joe wants to gamble and double their winnings.
The Grapes of Wrath  Better dead than red? Tom Joad got out of prison. He was put in there for manslaughter. Got seven years, but paroled in four. He hitches a ride home to his family's farm in Oklahoma. He walks the last few miles, and first encounters an old family-friend, a preacher named Jim Casy. Casy has renounced his religion and thinks that labeling actions as sinful and virtuous are outdated concepts. There's only nice and not-so nice, which sounds kind of weird and vapid, but not when Casy says it.
E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial Oh...yeah. Still awesome. Phew!So an alien spaceship lands on earth, right? And all the Melmacian aliens start scooting around, picking up dirt samples and what not. But then the bad guys come riding in, in their giant metal gas guzzling machines called cars and start chasing the aliens! The Man With The Keys pursues on foot. The aliens get on their ship and blast off...but leave one behind. Mike's hanging out with with friends at the house.
To Kill a MockingbirdRacism. It's bad. So, so bad.It's the 1930's in Maycomb, Alabama. Scout Finch is a young tomboy who lives with her brother Jem, and father Atticus. Atticus Finch lives a life of quiet dignity that comes with being the world's most perfect human. He's a lawyer who accepts food as payment for his services, like a pilgrim or Eskimo or something.
Mr. Smith Goes to Washington News comes out that the U.S. Senator of...a state...has died. A flurry of phone calls between other senators and the mystery state's governor ensue. Big corporate guy Jim Taylor tells the governor to appoint his favorite stoolie, but the people of the state want a populist reformer. The governor of the state tries to stand up to Taylor, but Taylor reminds him they're all in his pocket.
High Noon It's the Way Back Olden Times, like 1853 or so, and the marshall of the little town of Hadleyville, Will Kane, is to be married to his lovely long-time gal Amy. Amy is a pacifist and a Quaker and a helluva dancer when she's acting with Fred Astaire. They get married in the Court House and around about a dozen or so well-wishers, and then they board their horse and wagon, headed off to their honeymoon and then a new life in a new town. Kane feels weird about turning in his badge because the new marshall isn't due to arrive until tomorrow, but his deputy Harvey Pell (Lloyd Bridges, looking reasonably young) will hold down the fort until then. Harvey says, I'm sure we'll all be just fine without you until tomorrow and everybody laughs and laughs because movies haven't been invented yet, and they don't know they're not supposed to say shit like that. But then a dude comes running up and says he's got bad news. The dastardly villain, Frank Miller, just got out of prison due to some technicality thanks to his lawyers Johnnie Cochran and Gloria Allred, and is coming into town on the noon train.
All About Eve So, in LA, there's a cemetery called Hollywood Forever, where they play old movies. Every Saturday night, people are encouraged to stand in line for hours, then sit on the grass with a blanket and some wine and crackers and watch an old movie projected onto the side of a giant white wall. It certainly adds something to the movie you're watching if you really luck out and the bodies buried mere yards away are the same ones projected on the wall. I saw All About Eve for the first time about a year ago, at Hollywood Forever, and I was a bit tipsy on the wine, was incredibly uncomfortable on the grass, and had forgotten a sweater so that by the time the movie actually started, I was shivering and huddled up against my friends for warmth and only occasionally glancing up at the screen. From what I remember, I wasn't particularly impressed, but who knows, maybe my cozy living room will provide a better environment from which to evaluate: Plot summary: We open on some sort of acting awards ceremony. It's a tiny room with a pretty small audience, so we're clearly not dealing with the movies here. The camera focuses on one fey dude smoking one of those long thin cigarettes from the movies as VO narration says, that's me.
Double Indemnity A man named Walter Neff staggers into an office building. He walks over to a desk and pulls out of the drawer some sort of suitcase-looking thing with what looks like one half of one of those old-timey looking phones coming out of it. I'm usually being sarcastic when I pretend not to know what some bit of technology from the Olden Times is, but this time I'm legitimately flummoxed. Is it some kind of phone? A suitcase phone? He talks into it, all hardboiled and noir-like and says he's recording what you might say is my last confession. So...it's like a tape recorder before there were cassettes? Is he recording on a record? Should I do some fancy google-fu or live in ignorance? Hmm...it's a fair question. Here's another one: am I stalling because this movie was boring as hell but not bad enough to have fun ripping to shreds like Sound of Music? Hmm. Another mystery.
Apocalypse Now Well, Pulp Fiction, I hope you've enjoyed your stay at the top of my modified AFI list. It was a good run.Capt Benjamin L. Willard, special operations, sits holed-up in a shitty hotel room in Saigon, haunted by demons. He smashes a mirror, does drugs, rages and weeps intermittently. He's paid a visit by several military higher-ups, including Harrison Ford, who have an assignment for him. He's to track down a Col.
The Maltese Falcon Brick is better.Private dick Sam Spade and his partner Miles Archer work in their agency in San Francisco and spend the day smoking and wearing nice suits and speaking unnaturally and having their Gal Friday run errands and such. Into the office walks Ruth Wonderly, a ritzy dame with gams that go all the way up to her unmentionables. She's got an assignment for them. Her sister's missing, see. She's been seeing this man Floyd Thursby, see, and suddenly she's gone like the Lindbergh Baby. Ruth wants Sam and Miles to track her down.
The Godfather: Part II On the last episode of The Godfather: At his daughter's wedding, Don Vito Corleone did a favor for Johnny Fontane involving a horse's head. The Sollorozo family tries to kill Don Vito and his son Sonny. Don Vito almost gets killed but survives. Younger brother Michael meets with Sollorozzo and his henchman and kills'em both after fishing a gun out of the toilet. He's the hero. Don Vito dies of a heart attack in a tomato garden. Sonny gets gunned down.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest Randall Patrick McMurphy was imprisoned and sentenced to do hard labor on a work farm in Oregon for five counts of assault and the statutory rape of a 15 year-old girl. He decided that hard labor was for suckers and he would pretend to be crazy. Though the doctors doubted his story, he said all the right things and got himself transferred to a mental institution for the rest of his sentence. On his first day, the woman who runs the ward, Nurse Ratched, conducts a group therapy meeting with the other patients. She sits them in a circle, and begins with Mr. Harding. Last time in group, Mr.
Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs  Once Upon A Time: The Fairy Princess Snow White lived in an empty castle with her Evil Stepmother, The Queen. The Evil Queen had a Magic Mirror, whose power included the ability to definitively rate chicks' hotness according to a complicated algorithm that only he could properly interpret. Every day, The Evil Queen would ask the Magic Mirror, Mirror, mirror, on the wall, who's the fairest of them all? and every day the Mirror would respond that she was the fairest of them all, until Snow White woke up looking particularly fair one morning, and just managed to tip the scales in her favor. When The Mirror breaks the bad news to the Evil Queen, she flips out and hires a hit man to stalk Snow White in the woods and kill her. The hunter follows Snow White into the woods, and sees her chatting earnestly with a baby bird who fell out of its nest. He realizes she's insane, and can't bring himself to kill her. He tells her the Queen wants her dead, and that she should run away, far far away, and she does.
Annie Hall Alvy Singer is a neurotic stand-up comedian of indeterminate religious background who lives in New York City. He talks to the camera, and has many grievances about his life. He tells us that he recently broke up with Annie Hall, the most fetching boy-woman in all of New York. He starts by telling us how he grew up under a roller coaster in Coney Island and then admits he exaggerates and sometimes can't tell what's real. In line at the movies, Alvy fumes at the bloviating pontificating man behind him and fantasizes about confronting him. He remembers when he first met Annie, at a tennis match with friends. She hit on him clumsily, then drove him to her apartment.
The Bridge on the River Kwai An epic, nearly three hour war movie from the 50's? Bleah. What's next, a John Wayne movie? All right, let's get this over with.Western Thailand, in a prison camp run by Japanese Colonel Saito. Two prisoners, an American and and Australian, are digging a grave for a fellow departed prisoner. The American, Commander Shears, says a few respectful words after being reminded of his name, and then they finish the burial. Shears bribes the guard with a lighter he found on the deceased, and begs the guard to let him stay in the sick tent for the next few days, and get off work duty. The guard allows it.
The Best Years of Our Lives This movie and the previously reviewed Sullivan's Travels are the only two movies on the list I hadn't even heard of before starting this project. Good sign or no?So, there was the event in the 1930's and 40's called World War II, and according to Bart Simpson it was one of only three good wars. (The others being The American Revolution and The Star Wars Trilogy). This movie takes place immediately after the greatest generation's greatest war. Three soldiers are coming home. There's Homer Parrish, a sailor who lost both hands in an explosion, Fred Derry, a man who got married just two weeks before shipping out, and Al Stephenson, an older man with a wife and kids. They all live in the same town, and arrive back home on the same day in the same single-engine airplane. They didn't know each other before that day, but promise to KIT and be BFFs since they all live within a ten mile radius or so.
The Treasure of the Sierra Madre Ol' Fred Dobbs lives in some crappy town in Mexico in the 1920's, is homeless, and begs American tourists for change. He finally gets an offer from an American contractor to work on an island off the coast for eight dollars a day for the next few weeks. Dobbs agrees to go, having no problem stealing Mexican's job. While on the job, he meets Bob Curtin, a fellow American who is also in deep southern Mexico for no stated reason, and also broke. But their boss turns out to be a cheat, and when they get back into town, the boss pretends to go get the money, and skips out on them instead. A few days later, Curtin and Dobbs run into him at a bar and proceed to beat him up in an unconvincingly blocked sequence that leads to the guy giving them two hundred bucks each. So they drink it up, and run into an old prospector named Howard, who tells them what will happen in the rest of this movie, I mean, tells them his past stories as a gold prospector.
Dr. Strangelove or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb American General Jack D. Ripper gives his executive officer Captain Lionel Mandrake a phone call. Captain, we're initiating Wing Attack Plan R. This is not a drill. Repeat, over, roger, ten four. Mandrake is stunned, and also British so therefore a big pussy.
The Sound of Music Sometimes, you root for the Nazis.The panoramic view of the Austrian vista sweeps ithrough the hilltops and centers on Sister Maria, who sings with gusto about how the hills are alive (really?! Holy shit!) with the sound of music (aw, nuts) and then the clock tolls down below at Hill Valley and Maria knows she's late. She grabs her habit and runs off. Down below at the nunnery, the nuns talk about how Maria is a problem at the nunnery because she is sometimes late and stuff, and sing about solving a problem like Maria. When Maria shows up, the head nun kicks her out and tells her that God (aka her and the other nuns) wants her to work as a governess for Mr. Georg von Trapp and his seven children. Maria sings about her insecurities at being able to care for so many children, then sings some more about how she has confidence.
King Kong  Carl Denham makes moving pictures, see. Why, he's one of the best in the business. He's about to film a new top secret film right now. 23 skidoo! Buy bonds! Flappers! Better dead than red! Four score and twenty years ago! Et tu, Brutus. Etc. The plan is to hire a ship and have the crew sail him and his movie crew out to a distant island. On the island are natives who maintain a huge wall that surrounds the middle of the island. What's on the other side of that wall? Well, never you mind about that, buckaroo.
Bonnie and Clyde In the 1930's, during The Great Depression, Clyde Barrow was a small-time bank robbing crook. He wasn't particularly good or memorable as a crook, and history would've long forgotten him, were it not for his choice of partner in crime. Bonnie Parker was a spoiled, bored child of apathetic parents and had an apparently busted moral compass. They Meet Cute when Bonnie catches Clyde trying to steal her mother's car. She playfully reproaches him, but isn't really upset, and they go riding off in it together. Clyde tells her he's a bank robber, but she doesn't believe him, so pulls a job in town right in front of her. They go speeding off, fleeing the pursing bank employees.
Midnight Cowboy Joe Buck lives in Texas, works at a diner, lives a life of quiet desperation, deserves something more. Joe Buck wants out. He plans to go to New York City and become a hustler, bedding beautiful, older rich women. He dons his cowboy hat and brown leather jacket with those frilly things and his trusty boots. He's got a cowskin suitcase and a small radio and a bus ticket. He's running from his life, fast as he can, but with a smile. The bus ride is long and uncomfortable, and people are sometimes rude to him (in the middle of the night, he sits next to an old lady who has her overhead light on and he reaches up to turn it off and she snaps, I want it on! and I laugh so hard I have a coughing fit) but he endures it all because the good life, a life without worries or horrible memories is just around the corner.
The Philadelphia Story We start our screwball comedy with the unhappily married C.K Dexter Haven and his wife, Tracy Lord. They're fighting. She breaks his golf club. He palms her face and slams her into the ground. No, really. He does.
Shane  So...I weirdly remember reading this book and watching the movie in Mr. Seaman's class in 8th Grade. (Mr. Seaman was probably my favorite teacher ever, a real stand on the desk and say, 'O, Captain , My Captain' kind of guy. He was so awesome, no one even made fun of his name.) But the problem is, Mr. Seaman was my History teacher. So, why would we be studying this in History? I must be getting some memory wires crossed.
A Streetcar Named Desire Blanche DuBois arrives from the plantation in Mississippi to the seedy slums of the French Quarter in N'awlins. She arrives on a streetcar, improbably named Desire, to her sister's doorstep. She's appalled by her sister's living conditions, in squalor and filth and penury, and feels the need to point this out to her dear dear sister Stella. She tells Stella that the plantation they owned in Mississippi is gone, disappeared to creditors and debt collectors and other men of ill repute. Stella commiserates with her sister's troubles and invites her to stay at her home until such time that she can get back on her feet and her affairs in order. Stella also reveals that she is with child. Stanley Kowalski arrives home from bowling; finds the cheap dizzy broad in his living room sucking on his liquor and spitting out five dollar words and thinks her story is bull.
It Happened One Night She is Ellie Andrews, famous Paris Hilton-like socialite, whose father is a bajillonaire. She elopes with a man named Westley against her father's wishes. He and his boy friday kidnap her before she can consummate the marriage (so it doesn't count!) and puts her on a boat headed back to New York. She flips out and stamps her feet and Daddy slaps her face and she jumps off the boat and swims ashore.He is Peter Warne, he's a newspaper reporter who just got fired by his boss and is busy getting soused at a bar with his now-former co-workers. He has a creepy John Waters mustache and is aggressively unattractive. They meet cute on a bus in Georgia headed for New York.
Rear Window  Simpsons did it!Outside L.B. Jeffries' window is a series of apartment buildings, an alleyway leading out into the street, a brick wall surrounding the whole area, and a little garden with pretty flowers. It's quite the Rockwellian view. On one channel, there's the sexpot, dubbed Miss Torso. She runs around in short-shorts and a tube top and dances and stretches and sunbathes. On another channel, there's an old married couple who sleep on a mattress on the fire escape, because it's so hot outside.
Intolerance  I would just like to take this time to thank God for allowing me to survive this ordeal, and send a message to my family that I love them.So around the time your great grandmother was churning butter with a giant wooden stick and your great grandfather was getting a hole drilled into his head to ward off evil spirits,D.W. Griffith, the maker of the KKK-supportive movie Birth of a Nation , was letting the people like you know that intolerance is a very bad thing. To whit, here are four stories intercut a la Altman, reiterating that fact over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. Story 1: Aka, the really short story.27 A.D., Jesus in da house.
Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring  So, this is it. The one movie made in this century that's on AFI's list. To be clear: No other movie made from 2000-2006 is better than the first Lord of the Rings movie, according to the AFI voters. Well I disagree. Working off of AFI's list of the 400 nominated films http://www.afi.com/Docs/100Years/Movies_ballot_06.pdf and limiting myself to movies made only in this century (including the year 2000 and don't start in on that no year zero shit, nerdlinger), I can come up with some movies that deserve the spot just a little bit more: 1. Brokeback Mountain (2005) 2. Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind (2004) 3.
West Side Story  All my life I wanted to be a gangster, but lacked rhythm.The Jets don't like the Sharks. The Sharks don't like the Jets. They fight, as men do.Snap, snap! Dance, dance, dance! Kick and...twirl!When you're a Jet/you're a Jet all the way/from your first cigarette/to your last dying day! There's lots of back and forth. Jets makes kissy noises at the Sharks. Sharks throw rotten fruit at Jets.
Taxi Driver Jimmy Fallon is a cop! Queen Latifah is sassy and black! Together, they fight crime in a tricked-out cab! Sorry, wait...wrong movie. I guess I'll send that disc back, after I max out the fun meter, of course. Technically, I've seen this movie before. But not really. Back in the mid 90's, I worked at a movie theatre in San Diego called Hillcrest Cinemas. It was a Landmark theatre, so we were all hoity-toity and special and shit, and did things like run Il Postino for 13 months straight. Occasionally, on Friday nights, we would wait until midnight and have a movie screening party, and invite our friends and bring lots of pot and booze and watch movies that hadn't been released yet, or perhaps old movies.
The Deer Hunter In a small town in West Pennsylvania, six friends gather with their families to marry off one of their own. Steven is getting married to Angela tonight, and is going to have a lavish Russian wedding that the whole town seems to be involved in. But first Steven and his pals Michael, Nick, Stanley, John, and Axle head off to the bar after work for a final bout of drinking before the big event. They share a warm and easy camaraderie that comes with years of friendship. They start to play pool, down shots, talk excitedly of their impeding military service in Vietnam. Well, that's just for the lucky three of them; Michael, Nick, and Steven. The other three stand on the opposite side, what with their knee injuries and obesity and what not.
M*A*S*H*  So, those who know me now might know that my Very Favorite TV Show Ever is The Wire. This designation was granted sometime in 2010, and is still going strong. Those same people probably know my prior Very Favorite TV Show was Battlestar Galatica, which had a brilliantly blinding and bright but all-too-brief run at the top of my list from 2009-2010. Those who've known me awhile know there was another Very Favorite TV Show Ever which had a phenomenally impressive run at the top of the heap.Cheers, which lasted first in my heart from 1990-2009. But what few, if any know, is that Cheers wasn't my first Very Favorite TV Show. Oh, no.
North by Northwest o this is Hitchcock, huh? I thought he'd be fatter.Roger Thornhill is a snappy ad exec with two ex-wives and a cavalier devil-may-care twinkle in his eye. (Think Roger Sterling). He rides a cab over to a restaurant for an important meeting with some clients, then remembers that he needs to send his secretary a telegram. At the same time, some shady men enter the restaurant and ask the waiter to page a Mr. George Kaplan. The waiter does so, just as Roger raises his hand to call the waiter over. He asks the waiter to send the telegram, which is something that happened in 1959 I guess, and the shady men think he's responding to the page.
Jaws In the summer of 1975, while I learned to hold my head up without assistance, (um...because I was an infant, not because of some tragic accident) Steven Spielberg went about creating the summer blockbuster.On the sleepy hamlet of Amity Island, a group of teenage hippies are having a drunken beach party. A pretty girl asks a pretty boy to go skinny dipping, and they race off to the beach, shedding clothing as they go. The girl is like the world's fastest runner, swimmer, and clothing remover, and is in the water and swimming far out even before the boy reaches the shore. He struggles with his shirt, giggles drunkenly, then passes out. The girl calls to him, laughs playfully, then she somehow misses the super scary orchestral music which indicates an impending shark attack, and is first nibbled on and dips slightly into the water. She cries out, more scared really than in pain.
Rocky Gonna fly now....Rocky Balboa, the big palooka with the heart of gold, is in the middle of a match with some other dude. The guy full-on head butts him--like, what is this dirty MMA shit?--and Rocky loses it and pounds the guy in the dust, winning the match. During his lengthy walk home through the rather ethereal and calm streets of Philly, he encounters a group of corner boys singing and drinking wine from the bottle. They greet him warmly, he takes a swig, and he continues on his way. At his little home, he greets his pet turtles and fish, and moves the fishbowl over to the turtle container so they can all say hi. Then he changes his shoes and sweater and tells us we're all very special.
The Gold Rush etcha didn't know there was a gold rush in Alaska in the late 1800's. Okay, maybe you did. Whatever. What, you think you're better than me, c ollege boy?The Little Tramp is a gold prospector in Alaska in the Olden Times. He's dressed like he always does, but he also has a little pick-axe or whatever. It's snowy and cold outside. He has no luck and during a horrible storm encounters The cabin of escaped fugitive, Black LarsenHe goes inside and the escaped fugitive himself is eating a turkey leg or something he's cooked on the fire.
Nashville Super great opening credits introduce the 24 person main-character cast with an voice over infomercial-type guy, excitedly explaining to us that we're about to see Robert Altman's Nashville  without commercial interruption, and then he says out loud the names of the cast while country music plays, in a way that's very reminiscent of those old album commercials on TV (A ct now! Get 50 songs of the price of ten!).Very clever. Then we see a van with VOTE HAL PHILIP WALKER FOR PRESIDENT; THE REPLACEMENT PARTY on it, as we're treated to a man on a recording blasting out of the van speakers,pledging that he's not like those other guys and wake up America those Washington fat cats are blah blah and all that Ron Paul third party goodness we love but don't ever vote for. We go into a recording studio where we meet the first batch of characters; there's Haven Hamilton; the old timey boot-in-your-ass country guy, currently recording a song about America's 200th birthday. His wife Lady Pearl and their adult son are also there. Plus, there's a BBC documentary filmmaker named Opal. Haven stops the recording and insists that Opal leave the studio, so the son takes her to another room where she watches Linnea Reese (Lily Tomlin, yay!) sing gospel songs with a black choir.
Duck Soup Sigh. All right, so...they're back. And now there's a fourth, even less funny one called Zeppo. Let me just make sure Waldorf and Statler are ready to watch with me. Waldorf: Well, you gotta give'm credit. Statler: Why's that? Waldorf: They're gonna keep on doing it until they get it right. BWA HA HA HA HA HA HA!There's a fake country called Freedonia and they're out of money and some rich lady will loan them money, but only if the king or emperor or whatever resigns and they put in this dude she likes named Rufus T.
Sullivan's Travels We begin in media res-- which is a pretentious hipster phrase I like using--two men are fighting on top a moving train. One man shoots the other several times in the chest and the second man falls onto the first, making him stumble back and they both fall off the train and into the water. The End comes onscreen, for we are indeed watching a movie. Movie director John L Sullivan (Sacramento shout-out!) is screening his new movie to two studio executives. They don't like it because it's not funny and that's why people come to see movies nowadays. They need escapism. Sullivan says he's tired of making shitty comedies from the Olden Times, which immediately makes him my new hero.
American Graffiti That is one bitchin' ride, man. So yeah. This is the movie that inspired Happy Days , the show everyone in my generation watched and loved until Ted McGinley showed up. The year is 1962. Four friends have just graduated high school and are going out for one last night on the town before real life intrudes. There's Steve (aka Richie Cunningham himself, Ron Howard, severely testing my theory that all ginger dudes are inherently hot), Curt (nerdy, overweight Richard Dreyfuss who looks crazy young and yet will play a grown up scientist just two years later in Jaws , I'm interested in seeing how that works), Terry (that ugly old guy Charles Martin Smith who's in every third movie playing ugly old guys, google him), and John (guy I've never seen before who's playing a proto-Fonzie character). At the start, Steve and Curt discuss the fact that they're both leaving for college the next day while the other two are staying behind.
Cabaret So, we've finally come to AFI's token gay(ish) movie, I guess. Couldn't be Brokeback Mountain, or The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert or Philadelphia, or Were the World Mine , or In and Out, or one of the other dozens of good gay movies out there. Actually, I lied. Those are all the good gay movies out there. All right, fine. I guess this is the only one with Liza.Wilkomen! Bienvenue! Welcome! The Kit Kat Klub is proud to present, Fraulein Sally Bowles! It's Berlin, 1931, a totally safe and uneventful time in Germany's history.
Network At the time, this was considered a parody.Howard Beale is the anchor or the nightly news at the realistic sounding UBS station. He's just been given his two week notice by his boss and friend, Max Schumacher. That night, while doing the news, he announces to his audience that he'll be gone in two weeks, and since he has nothing but the show to live for, he'll be killing himself the following evening live on television. Hilariously, most people in the crew are barely listening to him, and chatting among themselves, so only a couple people even take note of what he said. But those who do manage to tell the director, who immediately pulls him off the air. Network head and billowy old white guy Nelson Chaney fires Beale on the spot.
The African Queen It's 1914 and we're in Africa. Katharine Hepburn and her fat, bland, brother are in a tiny church, singing a hymnal of some sort. They are missionaries, like you hear about in movies. Katharine on the piano, and her brother behind the pulpit. The entire congregation are African tribesmen and women, in full tribal apparel. The hymn is in English, and only Katharine and her brother are singing, while the rest of the tribesmen just mumble incoherently. Sigh.
Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark I can't be absolutely certain, but I think this is the first movie I ever saw in the theatre. We weren't exactly rich and didn't make the formidable trek to Greenback Lane very often, but I remember going for this movie. Other early movie memories include a double feature of Tron and Star Trek II, as well as E.T. , but all those movies came out in 1982. I didn't see Empire Strikes Back until after it came out on video. So I think this is the first. Unfortunately, I didn't get a chance to rewatch this today, but luckily I still have my old blog post from 1981, so I'm just going to repost it here.
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? A small New England college campus party ends after cocktails and polite conversations and George and his wife Martha head home. Martha wants to know what that movie was where Bette Davis said what a dump!, but George doesn't know and doesn't care. He never cares. He just wants to have a nightcap and to go to bed, but Martha springs it on him that she's invited people to come over. But it's after midnight! Why can't they come over some other time? Because Daddy wants us to be friendly with them. Hey, remember tonight? The joke? The elitist college professors literary joke? Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? Virginia Woolf? Virginia Woolf? HA HA HA HA!Fine, they can come over, but don't start in. Don't mention our son.
Unforgiven In the Wild Wild West, tales are told and myths are made up out of whole cloth. Munny was a brutal killer, and there were lots of tales told about him. But he eventually married and had two kids and left that life behind and became a pig farmer. His wife's mother couldn't understand why her daughter married such a scoundrel. His wife died shortly after, but Munny stayed a good man, and a good father to his kids, and probably a good farmer to his pigs. (If that sort of thing is quantifiable).In the town of Big Whiskey, Wyoming, a prostitute named Delilah got cut up by an angry john, he slashed her face several times, and the Sheriff Little Bill refused to do anything but charge him and his friend a fee of five horses. This angered the madam, Strawberry Fields, who then got together with the rest of the girls and put up a reward of $1000 for the murder of both the man who cut up Delilah, and his friend.
Tootsie  Men will make passes at dudes with girl glasses.  Michael Dorsey is a Struggling New York actor, living in an apartment with his friend Jeff Slater. He teaches acting on the side while going on various audition montages where he is alternatively too old, too young, too short, too tall. He's also argumentative with the directors about blocking and his characters' motivations. It's funny because..well it's not really that funny. But we're just getting started! On his 40th birthday, he begins to question his life choices and inability to make it as a big star. At the party, we also meet Michael's agent George and his feathery friend Sandy.
A Clockwork Orange I'll begin at the beginning. Me, your humble narrator Alex Delarge, and my droogs were relaxing and 'aving a bit of the ol' milkplus with the rest of 'em when I decided it was time for some ultraviolence. We beat a drunken old ded that was singing to himself and rolling around in his filth. I hate those old deds. Then we saw Billyboy and his droogs having a bit of fun playing the old in-out in-out with a pretty dama who was only struggling a little bit. So we attacked Billyboy and his droogs, beat 'em real good. That was just enough to get me charged up, so we had a bit more milkplus and drove outside of town to look for a home to have fun with.
Saving Private Ryan  Sigh. Matt Damon.An elderly man walks slowly down a gravel path, towards the Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial in France. His wife, children, and grandchildren follow behind him. He stops at a particular cross, and reads the name on it. He flashes back to...someone else's life, apparently. Which is a neat trick.
The Shawshank Redemption  Man, 1994 was a really great year.Red, a prisoner at the Shawshank State Penitentiary, would like to tell you a story about a man who came to the prison one day in 1947. That man is Andy Durfresne. (Pronounced just like it's spelled). He was convicted of double homicide. His wife was cheating on him with another man, and he went to the man's house with a gun and some bourbon, to confront them both. He waited for a long while, and they didn't show, so eventually he sobered up and drove home, ditching the gun into a river. Later that night, someone came along and killed his wife and the other man.
Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid It's the late 1800's. Butch (overrated and exaggerated by others amount of hotness-Paul Newman) and Sundance (super flaming ginger-hot Robert Redford) are playing a game of poker with Buford Maddog Tannen and some other local cowboy ruffians. Sundance bids a lot, and Buford thinks he's bluffing. There are no cards on the river or turn, because the best poker, Texas Hold'em, hasn't been invented yet. Buford calls and Sundance has a Full House and wins the hand.Buford and his men accuse him of cheating, and Butch and Sundance quip back and forth to one another with a practiced and affected nonchalance. Quip quip quip.
The Silence of the Lambs FBI trainee Clarice Starling gets called in to see her boss, Jack Crawford. He's got an assignment for her. She's to go to the Baltimore State Hospital for the criminally insane and do a psychological profile on a prisoner there. Starling wonders if this is connected to the famous serial killer currently at large, Buffalo Bill. Why no, Starling. Not at all, as I sit here framed by Buffalo Bill newspaper clippings and crime scene photos. Run along, now.
In the Heat of the Night Racism sucks. Summary (with spoilers): Poduck town in Bumblefuck, Mississippi. 1967. Deputy Sam Wood is making the rounds in his patrol car; it's late at night. It's also hot out. And Sam is in the heat. At night. Hey, wait a minute...
Forrest Gump  Ah, we meet again. My old nemesis. Aka--the first time I became disillusioned by the Academy Awards. You, Mr. Gump, killed the believer in me. The believer in all of us. Was it worth it?A CGI metaphor floats down from the sky while the opening credits roll.
All the President's Men Real life footage of Nixon on the floor of Congress. The entirety of the House of Representatives, his cabinet, and assembled guests rise to their feet and applaud boisterously at his entrance. Jack Nicholson's in the front row with those shades. Billy Crystal and Bruce Villanch are backstage coming up with some crazy one-liners. Nixon beams from ear to ear, even though he's even though he is a crook and a criminal, because he is a sociopath. Fade out. Some time earlier, some hoodlums are caught breaking into the Watergate Hotel, at the DNC Headquarters.
Modern Times  So finally we meet, Little Tramp.Factory worker Charlie Chaplin works all day at the Widget Factory, tightening screws with a giant wrench. He's working so fast, that even when it's time to stop for a break, he keeps swiveling back and forth and tightening widget screws in his mind, to hilarious effect. Some men come in wanting to talk to The President of the company. They're trying to sell him a new machine that feeds people. They ask The President for a volunteer worker, so they can demonstrate how it works. Charlie is picked, of course, and he is strapped into this weird thing that has robot arms that feed him a full course meal.
The Wild Bunch Welcome to the artsy western. Think The Thin Red Line or some other bit of art house douchery from Malick crossed some piece of shit redneck thing John Wayne was in. Basically, the worst qualities and stereotypes of the red and blue states, mixed together.We start out decently enough, with a bunch of children gleefully watching hundreds of red ants overpower and devour a scorpion. It's 1913, and that was probably the best entertainment back then. Pike Bishop leads his men into a railroad office. Their plan is to hold it up, and steal all the silver.
The Apartment  Hays Code?I don't care about no stinkin Hays Code! I got your Hays Code right here!CC Baxter is a youngish cubicle dweller (sans cubicle) who works in New York City. There are 9 million people in New York City. If you laid them all end to end, they'd reach Pakistan, and that's with an average height of 5'6'' (my, how we've grown since 1960). At Baxter's job, Blah Blah Inc, there are over 30,000 employees, and there are several thousand who work on Baxter's floor, in a freaking gigantic room that would give Stanley Kubrick a giant boner, with endless rows of desks and phones, and office drones to man them. Baxter stays late every night at the office, putting in hours of overtime. Not because he's a good employee, but...how can I put this delicately? Because his apartment is a block away from the office and his bosses like to use it as a place to bring women to fuck around on their wives with. On one such night, Baxter's supervisor's special lady is taking her sweet time, and even though they were supposed to be out by nine (!); the light's are still on when Baxter comes walking down the block.
Spartacus  Summary (with spoilers): Voice over narration (that quickly goes away, thankfully) tells us that Rome was a mighty and powerful empire that consolidated its power with slavery. We see Spartacus, a rebellious slave, who fights back when the guards whip him. He was born into slavery and apparently is still pretty bitter about it. A fop named Batiatus, who owns a Gladiator arena, is making the rounds, scouting out slaves to buy and use in his Gladiator games. (Batiatus is played by Peter Ustinov, a name I've heard before, but I don't think I've ever seen in a movie. He's hilarious in this, and won a well deserved Best Supporting Actor statue. Sadly, however, I must acknowledge a truth I had not known until today: one of my favorite shows growing up was MASH , and my favorite character on that show was Charles Winchester, played by David Ogden Stiers. But now I see that Stiers just completely cribbed the character from Ustinov/Batiatus, right down to the fey quasi-British accent, the snobby demeanor, and condescending tone of voice.
Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans Shh!Of course, we've all seen this one countless times, so there's no need to really get into it too much. So, my first ever silent movie starts out with a woman getting dressed up all slutty and wearing black. She puts on make up and lipstick (WHORE!) and then leaves her home. She appears to live in a small village community. The other townspeople are put off by her high-flautin' ways, but she doesn't care. She approaches a home where through the window she sees a man sitting on his couch watching TV. Or, I guess not.
Titanic  An earring wearing Bill Paxton and his merry men are going on a deep sea expedition to search the sunken ship Titanic. They're looking for a diamond necklace called the Heart of the Ocean, which was owned by a villainous cartoon character named Cal Hockley. They locate Cal's safe and bring it up onto their boat, but when they open it, there's no diamond. There is, however, a drawing of a naked woman wearing said diamond. Said naked woman is Rose Dawson Calvert, and she's 101 years young nowadays. She was 17 when she boarded the Titanic. She contacts Bill Paxton to tell him the story of the necklace.
Easy Rider We begin with our heroes, hippie weirdos Wyatt and Billy, buying drugs in Mexico. Wyatt's the more laid-back of the two, and he's making the transaction, speaking to the drug guy in Spanish, while Billy says si, bueno and giggles. Then, they've crossed the border in America, where they sell the drugs to Phil Spector outside of an airport. Wyatt puts the money in a cylindrical tube and puts it inside his motorcycle.In a first of many many long shots, we see Billy and Wyatt driving their motorcycles along endless highways, while bitchin' classic rock plays on the soundtrack. While getting gas, they encounter a farmer and his family. The farmer invites them to have lunch, and they do, explaining to him that they're driving to LA by way of New Orleans, with a stopover for Mardi Gras.
A Night at the Opera Okay, so...remember how on MASH , Hawkeye would sometimes wear a funny pair of glasses and mustache and then run around making even more really bad puns than he normally did? Well, turns out, he didn't invent that character. It was based on someone called Groucho Marx, who worked with other guys referred to as his brothers and did movies they called comedies. Never seen one until today.Groucho Marx (playing a character whose name absolutely doesn't matter) is sitting in a restaurant having dinner with a comely young blond lady. At the table behind him is an older woman, who complains that her date (Groucho) never showed up. They finally see each other, and she harrumphs that he's late for dinner and he says something like nonsense, I already had dinner! and here we go. He then sits at the table with the lady (named Mrs.
Platoon War is bad. But what about sanctimonious directors?Chris Taylor and some other new recruits arrive in Vietnam, in a station near the border of Cambodia. They see their first casualty, a dead body in a bodybag, being loaded onto a chopper. Some veterans pass by with catcalls and derision. You don't know what you're in for, and all that. Taylor's immediately frightened. He meets Staff Sergeant Barnes, who's all hardass and shit.
12 Angry Men I've seen this as a play, and part of an 80's TV Movie with Jack Lemmon. But I hadn't seen this version before, of course. The black and white kept me away. Let's see if it was for a good reason.A bored judge instructs a jury of twelve not-really-all-that-angry men about the seriousness of the crime alleged (murder), the severity of the penalty (death) and the need for their verdict to be unanimous. He's got his fist propping up his head, and can barely stay awake as he recites his jury instructions from memory. The twelve men nod dutifully and then get up to begin deliberations.
Bringing Up Baby Oh, great. Another movie from the Olden Times. Sigh. Let's get this over with.David Huxley is a paleontologist, which is like a dinosaur guy. He's futzing around his...lab, I guess, putting together the bones of a brontosaurus. He announces to his comely assistant that he needs one more bone--the intercostal clavicle--to complete the dinosaur, and it's arriving by mail later that day.
The Sixth Sense  There was a time when Y2K was a legitimate concern. When a BlackBerry was a fruit and an iphone was a typo and a droid was a golden robot with an English accent. When the President lied about BJ's instead of WMD's. When my friend Aaron Pierce was childless and would think nothing of running out and seeing a movie neither of us even knew anything about. And when a wunderkind director with a funny name came out of nowhere and made one of the best movies of the decade. His talent seemed unbreakable, and all signs pointed to him overtaking the village known as Hollywood for decades to come. He was the shark, and the lady in the water was the old Hollywood ruling class.
Swing Time I don't get the Olden Days. I really don't.John Lucky Garnett is in some dancing/performing troupe with a bunch of other dudes, and they're dancing around on stage. The show's over, the audience applauds, and Lucky races offstage. Some stage manager or someone tells Lucky to get back out there for an encore, but Lucky says he can't because he's got to hurry up and get to his own wedding, which is later that day. Lucky has an amazing work ethic. The other guys get offstage and they grouse about how Lucky is leaving them and he's their star performer and without him they'll all suck and what not.
Sophie's Choice It's the feel horrible movie of the century. Come one, come all.The weirdo European dude from Ghostbusters II announces through some slightly overwrought narration that his name is Stingo, and he's a twenty-two year old farm boy from Virginia, who has traveled to big bad Brooklyn to find himself and gain an education in life. It's 1946, just a year and a half after the end of the Second World War. Stingo arrives at a large pink house that serves as an apartment complex of sorts. He meets the landlady, and moves in downstairs. There's one other neighbor upstairs.
Goodfellas I only saw this one for the first time a year ago, so it counts as one of my 31 previously viewed, but only just.All his life, Henry Hill wanted to be a gangster. He began working for gangsters as a kid at the cab stand, parking cars while guys like Timmy Two Times and Bobby No Nose would gather at the local watering hole and chat about the daily ins and outs of mob living and how glamorous it all was. The leader was Paulie Cicero, on account of him being the fattest, but Henry idolized Jimmy Conway the most because he was always flashing the dough around and got respect from everybody he met. One day, Henry's Irish father got a letter from the school saying that Henry had been truant for three months and so Henry's dad beat the shit out of him. (Shockingly, Henry had an unpleasant home life). In response, Jimmy and some of the other nudniks threatened to kill the mailman if he ever delivered any mail from the school to Henry's house ever again. A short time later, Henry got pinched for a minor crime, but even though the cops pressed him, he didn't snitch on anyone, he was no rat, and the guys got him acquitted anyway.
The French Connection Police detectives are a troubled lot.It's 1971, and cops in the movies and TV were heroic and flawless and always caught the bad guy and brought him to justice. But Jimmy Popeye (ugh... really? ) Doyle is not heroic or flawless. He's a bad egg, obsessed with getting his man, no matter what the cost. Rumor has it he even sleeps with women who are not his wife. He also swears.At the start, he and his partner Buddy Russo bust into a funkadelic club for brothas and collar one guy.
Pulp Fiction So yeah, I've seen this one already. Like, only about ten thousand times. Just like you. So let's do this mother fucker.Pumpkin and Honey Bunny are at the diner, discussing the finer points of armed robbery. The banks are too dangerous. The convenience stores don't have much cash.
The Last Picture Show High school seniors and buddies Sonny and Duane (a shockingly young and hot Jeff Bridges) are meeting up and hanging out the local pool hall. Picture it. Texas. 1951. A little podunk town. Tiny, desolate, and bleak. The kind of town that has scared away all primary colors. The pool hall owner, Sam the Lion, mildly gives the boys shit about not doing so well in last night's football game.
Do The Right Thing  We're a long way from Yankee Doodle.We jump right in to the opening credits with Rosie Perez dancing/sparing to Public Enemy's Fight The Power, right on the street. Already I'm loving this, much to the relief of my White Liberal Guilty self. After the song, we open on Brooklyn, and meet its various inhabitants. There's Mister Senor Love Daddy, the local DJ, there's Da Mayor, the elderly drunken crank, there's Mother Sister, the put-upon object of Da Mayor's affections, there's Smiley, the mentally challenged kid always trying to sell people one of his many pictures of Martin Luther King Jr and Malcolm X, there's Tina, the aforementioned feisty dancing Latina, there's Buggin Out, the weird looking trouble maker, there's Radio Raheem, the man with the boom box and the song Fight the Power on a seemingly endless loop, there's the Italian pizzeria owner Sal, and his two sons Vito and Pino, and there's Mookie, who works deliveries for Sal. It's a heat wave. It's hot in Brooklyn.
Blade Runner   Title cards tell us it's the future. November 2019, Los Angeles. We learn that in this dystopian future, an evil company called the Tyrell Corporation has invented robots who look like humans to work as our slaves. They're called replicants. And eventually the replicants evolved. And rebelled. And they have a plan.
Yankee Doodle Dandy  Well great, now I hate America.Real-life person and Broadway writer/producer/singer/dancer/star George M Cohan is just finishing up his performance of I'd Rather Be Right, in which he imitates the President of the United States, Franklin Roosevelt. He tap dances around the stage vigorously, as FDR was known to do, then finishes to rapturous applause. His wife greets him off-stage and then shoe-horns in awkward dialog about how it's supposedly controversial to imitate the president. Suddenly, George's partner Sam interrupts with news that the President is on the phone and wants to speak to George. George gulps theatrically, and takes the call. The President wants to see him, and won't say why.
Toy Story  So...this is obviously one of the 31 I've already seen. I don't live under a rock, people! However, I can't say for certain, but I don't think I've sat down and watched it all the way through since it came out in the theatres fifteen years ago...until today, that is. DUN!A little boy is hanging out in his room playing with his toys, which include a cowboy, a slinky dog, a potato head, a T-Rex, and a Little Bo Peep porcelain doll, like all the little boys have. The boy's name is Andy. He grabs the cowboy and bounds down the stairs into the living room, where his mom mentions that he needs to get ready for his birthday party later that afternoon. Andy scurries upstairs, drops off the cowboy toy, and exits stage left. Suddenly, the cowboy, previously lying inert, begins to move around.
Ben-Hur So, as mentioned earlier, it is my personal goal to watch all one hundred AFI top movies in reverse order. #100 was Ben-Hur, a three hour and forty five minute epic flick that I watched over the course of two days.Plot summary (with spoilers) :A new Roman governor and his second-in-command, Messala, arrive in Jerusalem to throw a parade in honor of the new Governor's recent promotion. While there, Massala arranges a meet up with his old childhood friend, Judah Ben-Hur. The two are overjoyed to see each other. (Although perhaps Massala is more overjoyed than Ben-Hur. In the documentaryThe Celluloid Closet,which talks about gay characters in film, Gore Vidal relayed an anecdote and said that apparently the director and the actor playing Massala agreed that his character and Ben-Hur were lovers in their youth, and Massala loved him still. This isveryevident in the actor Stephen Boyd's portrayal. The funny part was, they both agreed don't tell Chuck.
